for part two of the lab we need to
create another verilog source file
this will become our top file for the project and
we'll include the seven segment module within it
so we call this file adder
again keep all the defaults
so now with adder open we can start
populating this with our logic so the
first thing we want to do is create
a 4-bit wide input for x and for y
so these describe our switches we'll
input our numbers to add together
next we want to take a selection of seven segments
again so this is a through g as our outputs
and then we need one final output for
storing the overflow of our addition
so this will be mapped to an
led on the constraints file
what we then want to do is we need to create
a wire to store the output of our addition so
we can do this with the keyword wire creating
it as a 5-bit wide bus for sum so the reason
it's five bits wide whereas our inputs are four
bits wide is that we know if x and y create a
value that is larger than four bits there'll be
an overflow and we need to store that somewhere
so what we can do next is we can
assign sum to the summation of x and y
next we can assign the overflow to the topmost bit
of sum which will store the
overflow value from the addition
and finally we want to connect this to the
previous logic we wrote for our seven segment
display so the way that we could do this is we can
use the keyword seven seg the name of our module
specified by an instance of that module so let's
call this 'inst' doesn't need to have a specific
name this is whatever you want it to be followed
by the assignment of the inputs of that module
so in this case we know that there is the sum
value as our switch value as we previously used so
as before we had sw storing a 4-bit wide bus
for the input of the switches instead of the
switches being the input now we're going to use
the wire that we created earlier so we can do sum
in this case we only want to
specify a 4-bit wide value
followed by each of the outputs
of the seven segment display
you can see we're missing a semicolon there
so if you now save this file you should see
the design sources update on the side so now it's
pulled in seven segment as an instance within adder
so adder is the top file pulled in by the instance
of seven segment underneath it this is a hierarchy
that will be generated in Vivado as we run
through the tools again so the next thing we
need to do is we need to now map the values that
we're using in our adder to the constraints file
to make sure that our inputs and outputs are
correct so if we go back to the constraints
file we can look at our switches so we know that
we've now changed the name of the switch to x
and we've added four more switches so here we
can uncomment this with the y values next we
know that we have an led for the overflow value in
this case overflow so we can uncomment this line
and we still have the same values from the seven
segment displays earlier so save that now we can
go back to the tool flow again and click generate
bit stream it should warn you that synthesis
is out of date that is correct we want to run
through both synthesis and implementation before
we generate our bitstream so we can see that the
board is now in its default state after just being
programmed and we can set our application
running so the first four toggle switches
correspond to x second four correspond to y we
see one plus zero is one one plus one is two
and then we can change it so if we set
x to 2 and y is currently on 1 we get 3
we can set y to 0 and then y to 2 before
and then we can keep going up so set x to 3
y to 3 and then we can look what
happens when we overflow it so if
we set both x and y to maximum so
x being f and y being f as well
you can see now that we have
an overflow led illuminated